README.md, before:

# ArchiveAI

ArchiveAI allows you to chat with your documents using LLMs while keeping your information private and local.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, ensure you have Python 3.9.12 and [Ollama](https://ollama.com/download) installed to run a local LLM.

Once installed, run llama3.2 by running the following command in your terminal:

```sh
ollama run llama3.2
```

Keep llama3.2 running in the background. When you are done using ArchiveAI, stop llama3.2 by typing in the /bye command.

## Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository

Open a new terminal window and run the following commands:

```sh
cd
git clone https://github.com/taha-shahid1/ArchiveAI.git
cd ArchiveAI
```

### 2. Install Backend Dependencies

```sh
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Install Frontend Dependencies

```sh
cd frontend
npm install
cd ..
```

## Running the Project

### 1. Start the Backend

Ensure you're in the `ArchiveAI` directory and run:

```sh
python3 -u backend/app.py
```

This will start the Flask backend.

### 2. Start the Frontend

Open a new terminal window, navigate to the `ArchiveAI` directory, and run:

```sh
npm run dev
```

The React frontend will start, and a URL will be displayed in the terminal. Open the URL in your browser to start using ArchiveAI!

### Closing ArchiveAI
To stop the backend, go to the terminal window where the backend is running, and press:

```sh
CTRL + C
```

To stop the frontend, go to the terminal window where the frontend is running, and press:

```sh
CTRL + C
```

To stop llama3.2, go to the terminal window where llama3.2 is running, and type in the following command:

```sh
/bye
```

Commit message:

Edited README.md for more instructions for frontend

README.md, after:

# ArchiveAI

ArchiveAI allows you to chat with your documents using LLMs while keeping your information private and local.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, ensure you have Python 3.9.12 and [Ollama](https://ollama.com/download) installed to run a local LLM.

Once installed, run llama3.2 by running the following command in your terminal:

```sh
ollama run llama3.2
```

Keep llama3.2 running in the background. When you are done using ArchiveAI, stop llama3.2 by typing in the /bye command.

## Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository

Open a new terminal window and run the following commands:

```sh
cd
git clone https://github.com/taha-shahid1/ArchiveAI.git
cd ArchiveAI
```

### 2. Install Backend Dependencies

```sh
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Install Frontend Dependencies

```sh
cd frontend
npm install
cd ..
```

## Running the Project

### 1. Start the Backend

Ensure you're in the `ArchiveAI` directory and run:

```sh
python3 -u backend/app.py
```

This will start the Flask backend.

### 2. Start the Frontend

Open a new terminal window, navigate to the `ArchiveAI` directory, and type in these commands:

```sh
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The React frontend will start, and a URL will be displayed in the terminal. Open the URL in your browser to start using ArchiveAI!

### Closing ArchiveAI
To stop the backend, go to the terminal window where the backend is running, and press:

```sh
CTRL + C
```

To stop the frontend, go to the terminal window where the frontend is running, and press:

```sh
CTRL + C
```

To stop llama3.2, go to the terminal window where llama3.2 is running, and type in the following command:

```sh
/bye
```
